BhagavadGita Arnold1885
Gita 2:14	The senses of man rush out toward sense-pleasures and from them they catch the contagion of desire. Heat and cold, pleasure and pain, these come and go, transitory. Bear them with patience, Prince of Bharata.
Gita 2:20	Never the spirit was born; the spirit shall cease to be never; never was time it was not; end and beginning are dreams. Birthless and deathless and changeless remaineth the spirit for ever; death hath not touched it at all, dead though the house of it seems.
Gita 2:47	Let right deeds be thy motive, not the fruit which comes from them. And live in action. Labour. Make thine acts thy piety, casting all self aside, contemning gain and merit. Let success or failure leave thee equal: that is right.
Gita 3:5	Verily, none ever resteth a moment unactive; act all do, perforce, helpless, by impulse born of qualities of Nature. Doer is none, save Nature, and the worker therein who restraining the bodily organs sitteth still, the while in his heart imagining sense-objects, that man liveth deceitful and self-deceived.
Gita 4:7	When Righteousness declines, O Bharata! When Wickedness is strong, I rise, from age to age, and take visible shape, and move a man with men, succouring the good, thrusting the evil back, and setting Virtue on her seat again.
Gita 5:11	Such men of faith, abandoning attachment, work with the body, with the mind, with the wits, and the senses also, for purification of soul.
Gita 6:5	Lift up the self by the Self; let not the Self be downcast; for the Self alone is the friend of the self, and the Self alone is the enemy of the self.
Gita 6:30	He whose harmonised soul beholdeth Me in all, and beholdeth all in Me, he loseth Me not, nor I him.
Gita 9:22	Those who worship Me, thinking on no other; ever attendant; verily for them My care fulfils that which they have not, and preserveth that which they have.
Gita 12:13	He that hath no ill-will to any being, that is friendly and compassionate, free from selfhood, indifferent to pain and pleasure, patient, content, ever in harmony, his soul subdued, his purpose fixed, his mind and judgment fixed on Me, that man My worshipper is dear to Me.
Gita 18:66	Forsake all duties, fly to Me alone for refuge; sorrow not, I will release thee from all sins.
