Dhammapada Muller1881
Dhammapada 1:1	All that we are is the result of what we have thought: it is founded on our thoughts, it is made up of our thoughts. If a man speaks or acts with an evil thought, pain follows him, as the wheel follows the foot of the ox that draws the carriage.
Dhammapada 1:2	All that we are is the result of what we have thought: it is founded on our thoughts, it is made up of our thoughts. If a man speaks or acts with a pure thought, happiness follows him, like a shadow that never leaves him.
Dhammapada 1:5	For hatred does not cease by hatred at any time: hatred ceases by love, this is an old rule.
Dhammapada 3:33	As a fletcher makes straight his arrow, a wise man makes straight his trembling and unsteady thought, which is difficult to guard, difficult to hold back.
Dhammapada 4:50	Not the perversities of others, not their sins of commission or omission, but his own misdeeds and negligences should a sage take notice of.
Dhammapada 5:62	"These sons belong to me, and this wealth belongs to me," with such thoughts a fool is tormented. He himself does not belong to himself; how much less sons and wealth?
Dhammapada 8:103	If one man conquer in battle a thousand times thousand men, and if another conquer himself, he is the greatest of conquerors.
Dhammapada 12:160	Self is the lord of self, who else could be the lord? With self well subdued, a man finds a lord such as few can find.
Dhammapada 14:183	Not to commit any sin, to do good, and to purify one's mind, that is the teaching of all the Awakened.
Dhammapada 17:223	Let a man overcome anger by love, let him overcome evil by good; let him overcome the greedy by liberality, the liar by truth!
Dhammapada 20:276	You yourself must make an effort. The Tathagatas are only preachers. The thoughtful who enter the way are freed from the bondage of Mara.
Dhammapada 25:381	The Bhikshu, full of delight, who is calm in the doctrine of Buddha will reach the quiet place, cessation of natural desires, and happiness.
Dhammapada 26:393	A man does not become a Brahmana by his platted hair, by his family, or by birth; in whom there is truth and righteousness, he is blessed, he is a Brahmana.
