TaoTeChing Legge1891
Tao 1:1	The Tao that can be trodden is not the enduring and unchanging Tao. The name that can be named is not the enduring and unchanging name.
Tao 2:1	All in the world know the beauty of the beautiful, and in doing this they have the idea of what ugliness is.
Tao 4:1	The Tao is like the emptiness of a vessel; and in our employment of it we must be on our guard against all fulness.
Tao 5:1	Heaven and earth do not act from the impulse of any wish to be benevolent; they deal with all things as the dogs of grass are dealt with.
Tao 8:1	The highest excellence is like that of water. The excellence of water appears in its benefiting all things, and in its occupying, without striving, the low place which all men dislike.
Tao 11:1	The thirty spokes unite in the one nave; but it is on the empty space for the axle, that the use of the wheel depends.
Tao 16:1	The state of vacancy should be brought to the utmost degree, and that of stillness guarded with unwearying vigour.
Tao 19:1	If we could renounce our sageness and discard our wisdom, it would be better for the people a hundredfold.
Tao 22:1	The partial becomes complete; the crooked, straight; the empty, full; the worn out, new.
Tao 25:1	There was something undefined and complete, coming into existence before Heaven and Earth.
Tao 27:1	The skilful traveller leaves no traces of his wheels or footsteps.
Tao 33:1	He who knows other men is discerning; he who knows himself is intelligent. He who overcomes others is strong; he who overcomes himself is mighty.
Tao 37:1	The Tao in its regular course does nothing for the sake of doing it, and so there is nothing which it does not do.
Tao 40:1	The movement of the Tao by contraries proceeds; and weakness marks the course of Tao's mighty deeds.
Tao 43:1	The softest thing in the world dashes against and overcomes the hardest.
Tao 48:1	He who devotes himself to learning seeks from day to day to increase his knowledge; he who devotes himself to the Tao seeks from day to day to diminish his doing.
Tao 56:1	He who knows the Tao does not care to speak about it; he who is ever ready to speak about it does not know it.
Tao 63:1	It is the way of the Tao to act without thinking of acting; to conduct affairs without feeling the trouble of them.
Tao 64:1	That which is at rest is easily kept hold of; before a thing has given indications of its presence, it is easy to take measures against it.
Tao 67:1	I have three precious things which I prize and hold fast. The first is gentleness; the second is economy; and the third is shrinking from taking precedence of others.
Tao 71:1	To know and yet think we do not know is the highest attainment; not to know and yet think we do know is a disease.
Tao 73:1	He whose boldness appears in his daring to do wrong is put to death; he whose boldness appears in his not daring to do so lives on.
Tao 78:1	There is nothing in the world more soft and weak than water, and yet for attacking things that are firm and strong there is nothing that can take precedence of it.
Tao 81:1	Sincere words are not fine; fine words are not sincere. Those who are skilled in the Tao do not dispute about it; the disputatious are not skilled in it.
